# Disclaimer

This repo used the first version of Copilot, in technical preview, before Chat GPT and GPT-4 were a thing. I believe Copilot still uses Codex with GPT-3 for code generation nowadays (the new bultin chatbot and "explain this" are likely using GPT-4), but I expect things to have been updated to a significant extent in the meantime

---

# What's this about?
Just random Python scripts that I've made through writing ONLY comments or function names. All code was generated by GitHub Copilot Exceptions to this are imports and lesser code tweaks, like variables that don't exist, and extremely basic code corrections.

# Ok, but why?
Honestly, just found it fun. Initially I was skeptical about GitHub's Copilot current usefulness (still am, a little bit), but I quickly realized it works really well, at least in Python. I was playing around with it so much that I ended up writing no code, and just writing comments and function names to see what it would do. That's when I had the idea "what if I can literally just type what I want a program to do and let Copilot do the rest?"

# Me vs Copilot
Naturally, it becomes important to tell apart what I wrote vs what Copilot suggested. For that purpose the following cases are code written by me:
- Function headers (function name plus arguments) that are NOT inside other functions
- All imports
- Comments and doc strings begginning with ">>>"
- Lines of code commented with the message "# TWEAKED" in front of it (in case of multiple lines of code, each line will have its own "# TWEAKED")

# Results Overview
It requires some serious babysitting, rarely implements approaches that have good performance, and not all solutions are guaranteed to work. It does work much better than I expected. Not just by doing what you meant, but by actually structuring code closely and implementing functionality that is similar to how you would do it. But it's an impressive step towards self-writting programs based on natural human language.

## Babysitting
Amount of babysitting depends. Not sure what it depends on, but it depends (that's deep learning, I guess). There are times where it would auto complete complex tasks surprisingly well, there are times I thought it would be rather easy to implement what I specify, but Copilot struggled a bit.

For instance, getting it to plot and animate plots was surprisingly easy, and I managed it with only function names and function descriptions, no editing needed.

On the other hand, trying to make it print a circle in ASCII ("def print_circle") wasn't at all possible without specifically adding an initial __doc__ string specifying it, and
Copilot would suggest functions that print triangles, squares, straight lines, zig zags, four vertices of a square, etc. but not a circle

## Performance
Anything that involves iterating over lists and such, you can expect it to suggest naive approaches. Numpy arrays are also often iterated over with for loops (which have terrible performance), although Copilot does a good job of using packages, even if you're not importing them already, which makes performance comparable to a typical approach that uses a package's API. You can usually tell just by looking at the suggested code if it will perform well or not.

## Bad solutions
Yes. Very. Very common bad solutions are functions that have an initial description but aren't actually implemented (some even have comments with "TODO" followed by a pass statement), solutions which are just print statements (like def open_youtube() often leads to a suggestion that prints "Opening Youtube" followed by "Done!" and that's it), and huge chains of if elses that could easily be written as a single line. Although these solutions are abundant, they're usually very easy to dismiss and you can just focus on good solutions. There's also frequently a solution that simply consists in printing a bunch of newlines, don't know what's up with that...

## Usage of Context
Perhaps one of the things I liked most about Copilot is that, although it looks at other people's codes to come up with code for you, it actually does a good job at adapting to how you write stuff and looking at your own code. Not just code, I noticed it also looks at file names.

For instance, I tested it on a script where I, very often, saved pandas dataframes as csv, and, to my surprise, the generated code actually started doing the same thing, even though I didn't even include pandas or csv in function names or comments, and it would even print things along the way that I would usually print while debugging!

In all .py files of this repository the ">>>" is used to distinguish between comments/doc strings that I wrote and those that Copilot wrote. Unfortunately for me, Copilot quickly realized this and started putting ">>>" in its generated comments, which was quite annoying as I had to delete them all the time. Except I didn't! Copilot picked up that I was writting ">>>" everywhere, but then also realized that I kept removing ">>>" on code that IT had created, so it stopped suggesting the annoying symbol. Pretty neat!

One other example is calling functions. It does an awesome job at figuring what each function is reasonably expecting. A function that plots a graph with N points between A and B might be filled with 100 points between 0 and 1, which are all reasonable values. But if you have three objects called "n_points", "from" and "to" it instead uses those objects. This is one of the few things I've found it to consistently perform well.

One particular area where Copilot doesn't seem to care about context is imports. I figured it would avoid using packages that I had not imported (or even installed), but that doesn't seem to be the case, it suggests packages whether I have them or not.

## Suggestion Speed
Auto complete for functions isn't all that fast. Whole snippets of code take a while to be generated. On the other hand, if you write a comment of someting simple (e.g. "create list with even numbers from 0 to 24") it very quickly auto completes for you. In fact it autocompletes comments very fast as well, sometimes it's almost sinister how Copilot already knows what I want to write.
